This repository contains the files for the Master Thesis __Soil Physical Constraints on Modelling Water Flow in the Soil–Plant–Atmosphere Continuum__ by Eileen Lucia Waeber, conducted in spring/summer 2025 at ETH Zurich.

This thesis aims to shed new light on the influence of soil texture on plant transpiration through plant-soil water relations modelling and to explore in what conditions a simplification of the SPAC to plant internal properties is valid. For this purpose, a plant-only model that omits soil properties and describes water flow only using a plant effective conductance was compared with a more detailed model incorporating the hydraulics of varying soils. Moreover, a sensitivity analysis of the key parameters within the full SPAC model is conducted.

# Repository Overview
The main codes are provided in the format of Jupyter Notebooks.
* Codes in the main folder
  * The notebooks _Comparison.ipynb_, _Heatmaps.ipynb_, and _Sensitivity_Euler.ipynb_ create the main plots in the thesis.
  * The file _Soil_Data.ipynb_ contains the code to generate the stress onset limit (SOL) curves of the complex model for the different soil textures.
* Folders
  * _1_Functions_ contains files for the main functions used: the code for the simple and complex model and the RMSE function.
  * _2_Python scripts_ contains files that were run on the ETH Euler Cluster (https://ele.ethz.ch/resources-and-infrastructure/infrastructure/computational-ressources.html).
  * _3_Data_ contains a file with soil characteristic properties and a file to store the output of the _Soil_Data.ipynb_ code to avoid regular reruns.

# Software requirements
## Operating System
The codes are run on macOS Sonoma 14.6 operating system using Python 3.11.11 (VS Studio Code 1.103.2).

## Packages
For the sensitivity analysiss, the package "SALib" was used. How to install and use it can be found in the respective documentation (https://salib.readthedocs.io/en/).

# Data Availability
The data used for the simulations are available in the gitHub repository (for the soil characteristics) or can be generated independently using the provided code (for the sensitivity analysis and the optimization algorithm). The output of the Python files in the folder _2_Python scripts_ is not provided in this gitHub repository but can be easily generated by the user themselves. Therefore, some of the file paths are not working in the provided code and the user is encouraged to fill in the gaps themselves.
